Hi and welcome back in this video we're going to look at a set comprehension and also we're going to
start working on the app which is play the lottery.
I mentioned a couple of years ago that set comprehension and list comprehension are very much identical
and they are except naturally the resultant output of a set comprehension is going to be a set the output
of a list comprehension is a list.
And now we know also the differences between a set and a list and that is that a cent has no duplicate
elements.
With that said let's start working on our app.
We want a lottery app where and I'm going to write comments for the requirements of this app where the
user can pick six numbers and then the lottery calculates six random numbers then we match the user
numbers to the lottery numbers.
And finally we calculate the winnings based on how many numbers the user matched.
So the user is going to pick six numbers and then the lottery is going to calculate another six random
numbers which I'm going to add some more detail between 1 and 20.
And then we're going to match the huge numbers to the lottery numbers and then we're going to calculate
the winnings.
So the first part of this program is to let the user pick six numbers.
So let's do just that.
And because this is one small part of our program to let the user pick numbers I'm going to put this
into a method because it belongs as some sort of separate entity if you wish someone to create a method
called Get play numbers and then I'm going to ask the user into your six numbers separated by commas
.
And this is going to allow the user to enter six numbers separated by commas.
And remember we're separating my commas so that we can then split the string by the comma and get the
numbers themselves.
So I'm also going to assign this to a variable and this is going to be a number on the score c s v variable
c as reasons for comma separated value and this is a number variable which is a common separated value
variable.
It just tells me exactly what it is.
OK.
And now what I want to do is create a set from these comma separated numbers of numbers.
So now I want to create a center of integers from this number on the Scace as V.
So it would be fantastic for you to pause the video and attempt this now because it will get a lot of
the knowledge that we've learned so far and put it into one challenge.
So go ahead and attempt that
none of that's attempted.
Let's calculate the numbers from that comma separated value.
The first thing to do is to get the numbers separately as an A list so number on the school list is
going to be number on the S V dot split on the comma and that is going to give me something like this
right.
Well it would have six numbers but you get the idea.
And then what I want to do is to create an integer set which is going to use that set comprehension
.
So I'm going to do.
Int number for number N number.
And that is going to iterate over number list where number is going to be.
Each of the strings and the value that I'm going to put in the set is that number converted into an
integer and then that is going to be my integer set and then I can return the integer set.
So whoever calls this method is going to receive a set of integers that the user has put in.
So let's try that.
Let's call this method.
Get play in numbers and run it in our.
I'm just going to save this lottery.
Let's run this and see if it works in the python shell.
So we're going to enter our six numbers separated by commas one two three four five and six and then
we don't get anything back because we forgot to print it out.
So there we go.
Print
we have to put that in there.
So let's save that and run it again.
And now we get our set and we can see that we don't have quotation marks around them.
So these are indeed integers which is exactly what we wanted.
So now we've learned how to bring all that we've learned together and split the input and then also
convert everything to a number using set comprehension.
We could simplify this quite a lot if we wanted we could instead of defining a variable just return
this value so we could do this if we wanted.
But I think it is a bit more readable especially now that we are starting for us to keep things separate
and have variables for every step of the way.
So that is how we can bring everything together.
And now let's continue and create the lottery random numbers.
I'll see you in the next video